# Enhanced Applicability of Reinforcement Learning-Based Energy Management for Hybrid Powertrain Systems
Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) algorithms play a crucial force in advancing an intelligent development of control strategies. This paper proposes the DRL-based EMS for hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) for enhanced adaptability, including a novel training concept and training scheme, and provides public benchmark models and comparison results for subsequent work. Firstly, the flaws of the traditional reward function commonly used in the past are detailed discussed, including the misleading of the SOC deviation and the troublesome adjustment of weights, and a novel unweighted reward is designed. By combining the rule-based engine start-stop (ESS), it achieves more convenient training. Secondly, because unfamiliar state vectors may appear at any time in online testing, resulting in suboptimal or even erroneous control of DRL agents, this paper proposes a training scheme with a novel concept of state-based driving cycles. Based on the question bank-style training scenario, the DRL agent can master a richer state space as possible during the offline training. Moreover, for generating the state-based featured driving cycle, CARLA, DBNet, Gran Turismo, and one standard driving cycle are employed. Finally, to solve the lack of benchmark models and comparison results, the standard DRL algorithm and official hybrid powertrain model of MathWorks are adopted to complete co-simulation training on Tencent cloud server. Furthermore, the hardware-in-the-loop online testing combined with a real human driver is implemented to verify the optimization and real-time performance, and the powertrain models, data and final results have been made public, and a testing video have been uploaded.

Once the paper is accepted, more data will be uploaded and public. Furthermore, if you have any questions, please contact email: 20220701066@stu.cqu.edu.cn
